README.md, before:

# Mapper Generator
Golang mapper-generators used to implement [mappers](https://github.com/kubeedge/mappers-go).

# How to create your own mappers

## 1. Design the device model and device instance CRDs
If you don't know how to define CRD, you can get more details in this [page](https://kubeedge.io/docs/developer/device_crd/).

> <font color= red>**Warning**</font>  
> After introducing DMI, the following points should be noted when defining CRD:
> 1. `instance.yaml`: `spec.protocol` must contain `opcua/modbus/bluetooth/customizedProtocol`.   
      If you don't want to introduce redundant information, you can define like this:
>```yaml
> protocol:
>   customizedProtocol:
>     protocolName: foo
>```
> 2. `model.yaml`:  `spec.protocol` is a required field. For example
> ```yaml
>apiVersion: devices.kubeedge.io/v1alpha2
>kind: DeviceModel
>metadata:
>  name: foo-model
>  namespace: default
>spec:
>  protocol: foo
>```

## 2. Generate the code template
The mapper template is to generate a framework for the customized mapper. Run the command and input your mapper's name:
```shell
make template
Please input the mapper name (like 'Bluetooth', 'BLE'): foo
```
A floder named as you input will be generated. The file tree is as below:
```
mapper
├── cmd  ----------------------- Main process.
│ └── main.go ------------------ Almost need not change.
├── config.yaml ---------------- Configuration file including DMI's grpc settting
├── data ----------------------- Implementation data layer, almost need not change
│ ├── data.go ------------------ Export of data, any upstream module needs to be registered here
│ └── twindata.go -------------- Report twin data to edgecore's DMI server, almost need not change
├── device --------------------- Implementation device layer, almost need not change
│ └── device.go ---------------- Device control, almost need not change
├── Dockerfile
├── driver  -------------------- Device driver layer, complete TODO item in this 
│ ├── devicetype.go  ----------- Refine the struct as your CRD.
│ └── driver.go  --------------- Fill in the functions like getting data/setting register.
├── hack
│ └── make-rules
│     └── mapper.sh
└── Makefile
```

# Where does it come from?
mapper-generator is synced from https://github.com/kubeedge/kubeedge/tree/master/staging/src/github.com/kubeedge/mapper-generator. Code changes are made in that location, merged into kubeedge and later synced here.

Commit message:

add mqtt push method and REST API server
Signed-off-by: QiQi-OvO <2763359332@qq.com>

README.md, after:

# Mapper Generator
Golang mapper-generators used to implement [mappers](https://github.com/kubeedge/mappers-go).

# How to create your own mappers

## 1. Design the device model and device instance CRDs
If you don't know how to define CRD, you can get more details in this [page](https://kubeedge.io/docs/developer/device_crd/).

> <font color= red>**Warning**</font>  
> After introducing DMI, the following points should be noted when defining CRD:
> 1. `instance.yaml`: `spec.protocol` must contain `opcua/modbus/bluetooth/customizedProtocol`.   
      If you don't want to introduce redundant information, you can define like this:
>```yaml
> protocol:
>   customizedProtocol:
>     protocolName: foo
>```
> 2. `model.yaml`:  `spec.protocol` is a required field. For example
> ```yaml
>apiVersion: devices.kubeedge.io/v1alpha2
>kind: DeviceModel
>metadata:
>  name: foo-model
>  namespace: default
>spec:
>  protocol: foo
>```

## 2. Generate the code template
The mapper template is to generate a framework for the customized mapper. Run the command and input your mapper's name:
```shell
make template
Please input the mapper name (like 'Bluetooth', 'BLE'): foo
```
A floder named as you input will be generated. The file tree is as below:
```
mapper
├── cmd ------------------------ Main process.
│ └── main.go ------------------ Almost need not change.
├── config.yaml ---------------- Configuration file including DMI's grpc settting
├── data ----------------------- Publish data and database implementation layer, almost need not change
│ ├── dbprovider --------------- Provider implement database interfaces to save data and provide REST API
│ │ ├── influx ----------------- Implementation of Time Series Database(InfluxDB)
│ │ │ └── client.go ------------ WIP
│ │ └── redis  ----------------- Implementation of K/V Database(Redis)
│ │     └── client.go ---------- WIP
│ └── publish ------------------ Publisher implement push interfaces to push data,will add more protocols in the future
│     ├── http ----------------- HTTP client will push data to server
│     │ └── client.go  --------- WIP
│     └── mqtt ----------------- MQTT client will push data to broker
│         └── client.go  ------- WIP
├── device --------------------- Implementation device layer, almost need not change
│ ├── device.go ---------------- Device control, almost need not change
│ └── devicetwin.go ------------ Push twin data to EdgeCore, almost need not change
├── Dockerfile
├── driver --------------------- Device driver layer, complete TODO item in this 
│ ├── devicetype.go ------------ Refine the struct as your CRD
│ └── driver.go ---------------- Fill in the functions like getting data/setting register.
├── hack
│ └── make-rules
│     └── mapper.sh
└── Makefile
```

# Where does it come from?
mapper-generator is synced from https://github.com/kubeedge/kubeedge/tree/master/staging/src/github.com/kubeedge/mapper-generator. Code changes are made in that location, merged into kubeedge and later synced here.
